---
title: "QCNN-SER: A Noise-Robust Quantum Convolutional Neural Network with Enhanced Cross-Domain Generalization for Speech Emotion Recognition"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/conference-1
excerpt: "By Utilizing quantum principles like superposition and entanglement within a 6-qubit, 8-layer parameterized circuit, the model derives high- dimensional, noise-resistant features from speech signals. "
date: 2025-12-19
venue: "2025 28th International Conference on Computer and Information Technology (ICCIT), Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh"
paperurl: "https://mdrifat-hossen.github.io/files/pid_1073.pdf"
citation: ""
---

<div align="justify"> 
Emotion recognition in speech is essential for
human-computer interaction. This study introduces a refined
hybrid Quantum Convolutional Neural Network (QCNN) frame-
work designed to substantially enhance Speech Emotion Recog-
nition (SER). It addresses major challenges such as speaker
variability, noise robustness, and cross-domain applicability that
often limit classical deep learning models. By Utilizing quan-
tum principles like superposition and entanglement within a
6-qubit, 8-layer parameterized circuit, the model derives high-
dimensional, noise-resistant features from speech signals. The
method includes sophisticated preprocessing steps, such as band-
pass filtering and energy-based Voice Activity Detection (VAD),
followed by Mel-Frequency Cepstral Coefficients (MFCC) ex-
traction. Evaluated on a diverse dataset of 4,515 samples across
eight emotions (Angry, Calm, Disgust, Fear, Happy, Neutral, Sad,
Surprised), the QCNN achieved an accuracy of 86%, setting
a new benchmark. It surpasses classical approaches such as a
CNN with attention (77%), a traditional QCNN (77.87%), and
a hybrid quantum-classical network (76%). The model demon-
strated balanced performance, with precision scores ranging
from 0.79 to 1.0 (including a perfect 1.0 for Fear) and recall
scores from 0.82 to 0.94. These results underscore the promise of
quantum-enhanced neural networks in capturing complex, non-
linear speech emotion patterns and establishing a new standard
for robust, generalizable SER systems.
</div>

<button class = "btn" onclick="window.location.href='';">DOI: </button>
