---
title: "Enhancing DeepFake Classification Performance Using a CNN and XceptionNet-Based Pipeline"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/conference-1
excerpt: "To combat this, the study introduces a dual-model deepfake detection system that combines a custom lightweight convolutional neural network (CNN) with a transfer learning-based XceptionNet.  "
date: 2025-10-24
venue: "IEEE 2nd International Conference on Computing, Applications and Systems (COMPAS 2025), Kushtia, Bangladesh"
paperurl: "https://mdrifat-hossen.github.io/files/pid_688.pdf"
citation: ""
---

<div align="justify"> 
Deepfake technology can create a video or image
that looks real but in reality it is fake.It is a real threat to our
society and our digital security. The popularity of generative
models like generative adversarial networks (GANs) has made it
easier to produce content that we can not differentiate between
fake media and authentic media. To combat this, the study
introduces a dual-model deepfake detection system that combines
a custom lightweight convolutional neural network (CNN) with a
transfer learning-based XceptionNet. This framework is trained
and tested on the 140K Real and Fake Faces dataset, which
contains an similar number of real and synthetic images. The
custom CNN is built from scratch, featuring optimized convolu-
tional layers, ReLU activations, max-pooling, and dense layers
with dropout for regularization. The XceptionNet model is fine-
tuned with additional dense layers for binary classification. Both
models follow the same pre-processing steps and are trained
with the Adam optimizer using binary cross-entropy loss. The
CNN achieves an impressive 97% accuracy, while XceptionNet
reaches 91%, highlighting their strong performance and ability to
generalize. Metrics like precision, recall and F1-score verify the
reliability of both methods. The research suggest that despite
limited data and resources, deepfake detection is feasible by
utilizing efficient architectures and training techniques. This
framework gives a scalable and resource efficient solution for
real world deepfake forensics, particularly in environments with
limited computational capacity. Future work will investigate
ensemble models and real-time detection implementations.
</div>

<button class = "btn" onclick="window.location.href='';">DOI: </button>
