---
title: "Explainable Machine Learning Framework for Detecting Lumpy Skin Disease with Environmental and Climate Factors"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/c6
excerpt: "This study presents a comprehensive comparative analysis of eleven machine learning algorithms specifically aimed at binary classification within an environmental context."
date: 2025-10-24
venue: "IEEE 2nd International Conference on Computing, Applications and Systems (COMPAS 2025), Kushtia, Bangladesh"
paperurl: "https://mdrifat-hossen.github.io/files/pid_28.pdf"
citation: ""
---

<div align="justify"> 
Lumpy Skin Disease (LSD) is a viral illness af-
fecting cattle, marked by rapid transmission and significant
economic losses. Management challenges and diagnosis issues
make LSD a major health and financial risk for the livestock
sector. However, this study presents a comprehensive comparative
analysis of eleven machine learning algorithms specifically aimed
at binary classification within an environmental context. The
evaluated algorithms comprise traditional classifiers, ensemble
techniques, and advanced boosting methods, including support
vector machine, k-nearest neighbors, random forest, decision
tree, CatBoost, XGBoost, AdaBoost, linear classification, as well
as stacking and voting classifiers. Evaluation was based on
performance metrics like accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-
score, with CatBoost achieving the highest results (98% accu-
racy, 91% precision, 91% recall, and 91% F1-score). Typically,
ensemble methods surpassed standalone models in effectiveness.
An assessment of feature importance, using CatBoost and SHAP
(SHapley Additive exPlanations), identified cloud cover, diurnal
temperature range, and frost days as vital predictors, corrob-
orated by historical climate data from 2010 that demonstrated
notable predictive relevance. The application of interpretability
tools ensured that top-performing models remained transparent
and actionable. This research offers a robust, interpretable, and
flexible classification framework appropriate for environmental
modeling and wider machine learning applications, underscoring
the value of algorithm comparison and varied feature utilization
for effective predictive modeling.
</div>

<button class = "btn" onclick="window.location.href='';">DOI: </button>
