---
title: "Enhancing Robustness and Accuracy of Bone-Conducted Speech Emotion Recognition via Transformer Models"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/conference-1
excerpt: "This research presents a high-performance SER model based on the Wav2Vec2.0 transformer framework, fine-tuned with a custom dataset named audio EmoBon, created with bone-conducted (BC) speech from Malaysian speakers. "
date: 2025-10-24
venue: "10th International Conference on Electrical Engineering and Informatics (ICEEI2025), Malaysia"
paperurl: "https://mdrifat-hossen.github.io/files/pid_70.pdf"
citation: ""
---

<div align="justify"> 
Speech Emotion Recognition (SER) enhances
human-computer interaction by enabling systems to identify and
respond to emotions in vocal expressions. This research presents
a high-performance SER model based on the Wav2Vec2.0 trans-
former framework, fine-tuned with a custom dataset named
audio EmoBon, created with bone-conducted (BC) speech from
Malaysian speakers. The dataset features eight emotional cate-
gories and has undergone rigorous validation for high record-
ing quality and accurate emotional representation. Our model
utilizes raw audio input via a self-supervised transformer to
automatically extract rich acoustic representations, eliminating
feature engineering and enhancing generalizability across diverse
acoustic conditions. Additionally, the audio Emobon dataset
boosts emotional authenticity by simulating speech transmission
through bone conduction. Our system achieves 99.06% accuracy,
surpassing existing models on similar tasks. It performs excel-
lently across all evaluation metrics, including macro and weighted
precision, recall, and F1-score. ROC curve and confusion matrix
analyses validate its ability to classify emotional states accurately
while reducing misclassification. This study advances the SER
field by integrating transformer-based learning with culturally
relevant and physiologically informed speech data. The findings
indicate that these models are feasible for Southeast Asian
populations and practical applications like affective computing,
mental health diagnostics, and intelligent virtual agents.

</div>

<button class = "btn" onclick="window.location.href='';">DOI: </button>
